one of the fastest growing apps
worldwide and the hottest social media
in the United States is lemonade in
today's episode I'm going to be sharing
with you why I think this platform has
potential to be one of the next big
major social media apps and I'm also
going to share with you some early
insights on how to grow and get yourself
established on the platform
[Music]
hey what's up and welcome to today's
episode of build your tribe where I'm
going to be talking to you about the
lemonade I did an episode a few weeks
ago on build your tribe talking about
lemonade and Clapper two new social
media apps that are hot and growing in
popularity in the United States if you
haven't already listened to that episode
I highly recommend going back checking
it out and giving it a listen but
admittedly so lemonade was only I think
three or four weeks old at the time of
reporting that episode and I had only
been on it for about two weeks so my
opinion has evolved and changed since
then and it's continued to grow in
popularity I will say if you're looking
for just a very simple explanation as to
what lemonade is and what Clapper is I
would recommend going and listening to
that episode because you'll get a very
topical surface level explanation of the
two apps and one of my conclusions in
that episode was that I was a bigger fan
of Clapper than lemonade and I think
that I unfairly judged the two because
Clapper has actually been around for a
few years now and it actually came out
in 2020 as originally a right wing Wing
alternative to Tick Tock but it's since
become a little bit more middle of the
road in terms of its political content
and it's not so far right wing which
makes it more of a true alternative to
Tick Tock but lemonade which I
originally had believed to have been
around for a few years actually didn't
even make its way into the U.S market
until late February or early March of
2023 and another part of my initial
analysis was that I reported lower
engagement on lemonade and that was
definitely true off the bat I saw an
initial burst from Clapper which felt
good and made me favor that app more but
since then on lemonade I've seen huge
spikes of Engagement including one viral
post that has now reached over 100
000 people so before we get into the
tips on how to grow on lemonade and
everything I've figured out so far let
me talk to you about why I think lemony
could establish itself as a major
dominant Force maybe even one of the
Mainstays of social media which hasn't
really been done since Tick Tock prior
to tick tock bursting onto the scene in
late 29 19 and early 2020 there hadn't
really been any major new social media
players in over a decade I mean we think
about apps like Instagram Facebook
Tumblr even Twitter Youtube twitch these
platforms have been around for a while
they had been established they had grown
some of them had been bought or sold or
changed names but really for the entire
2010s there wasn't any major new social
media platform if anything there were
multiple platforms that died off or that
no longer exist a la Periscope and Vine
and there have definitely been social
media apps that made some noise like
Clubhouse and be real but ultimately
they didn't last I think that lemonade
has possible staying power it might have
the ability to last the test of time so
to speak and become one of these major
figureheads one of these dominant role
players of the social media world and
there are seven key reasons why I
believe this to be true first and
foremost influencers and celebrities
always are the driving force behind the
popularity of social media apps I
remember when Snapchat was at its peak
and then Instagram came out with
Instagram stories and multiple
influencers being led by Kylie Jenner
made the move from Snapchat stories back
to Instagram and Instagram stories and
Snapchat took a big hit because of it
and that's one of the key reasons why I
think lemonade could establish itself as
one of these big platforms because they
have influencer support now I will say
that a lot of the early influencer
support has been paid for and this has
actually been confirmed multiple
influencers are being paid to promote
talk about and even use lemonade if
these influencers start to see success
on the platform and they continue to use
it themselves and then talk about it and
promote it organically I could see the
app having major success if lemonade has
to continually pay influencers and
incentivize them to promote the app I
don't know how sustainable that is in
the long run but I think in the short
run it's a great way to get a lot of
attention and eyeballs and virality over
to lemonade which hopefully is enough
fuel to stoke the fire so it can burn on
its own without having to continually
pour gasoline onto it the second reason
why I think lemonade could continue to
grow in popularity is that it seems that
a lot of popular Tick Tock creators are
having success on lemonade now this
could be for a variety of reasons it
could be that people who are big on Tick
Tock just know how to make great content
and so they're doing great on lemony it
could be that those big Tick Tock
creators are telling all of their Tick
Tock followers to go over to Lemonade or
I have a slight suspicion that lemonade
which is owned by Tick Tock might be in
some way promoting or boosting or
helping out the creators who are already
big on Tick Tock over on lemony people
already like these influencers from Tick
Tock they already know these people and
we being Tick Tock being the parent
company we know that these influencers
make engaging content so let's make sure
that more people discover and find these
creators on lemonade speaking of getting
discovered and found that is one of the
major flaws of lemonade right now I
noted that in the earlier podcast that I
did about lemonade and Clapper but I
think that in general discoverability
and the ability to find people and look
up people and search for different terms
and topics that's not the best on
lemonade it could be built out a lot
more and I think that would greatly
improve the platform but in the meantime
it definitely seems like some people are
getting heavily pushed and prioritized
on the platform While others aren't the
third reason why I think lemonade could
establish itself is that the user base
is rapidly growing now they haven't put
out any official numbers yet so we don't
know exactly how many people are on the
platform but I can tell you just from
views and the amount of Engagement that
I'm seeing it seems to be rapidly
growing I also hear from dozens of
people every single day who are joining
the platform creating their usernames
and starting to post new things and so
it seems like the overall use and
engagement rate is continuing to go up
the fourth reason why I think lemonade
could establish itself as a major social
media platform is that it's a trending
Google search term and it has been for
weeks now that means that at least here
in the United States a lot of people are
looking up lemonade now I did say here
in the US and I have mentioned that a
few times lemonade is not available
worldwide just yet it is available in a
wide variety of countries but definitely
not worldwide I can tell you for example
at the time of recording this it's not
even available in Canada yet and while
that might be seen as a negative I
actually see that as a positive for the
app because there's all of this
publicity and attention for it but
there's also a fomo there's a fear of
missing out that people in other
countries who don't have access to it
are likely feeling right now and so when
Lemonade becomes available in those
countries it will likely see another
Resurgence in engagement and new users
the fifth reason why I think the
lemonade might be here to stay is that
gen Z has been looking for an
alternative to Instagram it's been
widely documented and reported that gen
Z users prefer Tick Tock far more than
Instagram and way more than Facebook and
a lot of gen Z users actually turn to
Tumblr at the end of 2022 and early 2023
as an outlet for them them to post
things that are aesthetically pleasing
and photo based content of course Tick
Tock being primarily video based content
gen Z might be looking for a non-video
social media app and that might be where
lemonade comes in and in fact according
to a lot of conversations that I've been
having on lemonade a lot of people from
gen Z have been really enjoying the
platform how aesthetically pleasing love
the content is and just the fact that
they have the ability and even the
encouragement to Post photo based
content rather than video based content
like we're seeing with Instagram reels
and YouTube and Tick Tock so you might
even say that lemonade is going to be
gen Z's Instagram the sixth reason why I
think lemonade has potential to be big
time is because it already has
monetization features a lot of platforms
put monetization on the back burner and
they bring it up as one of the last
features that they add when they're
creating a new platform they focus a lot
more on other aspects that don't always
resonate so well with users but
monetization and the ability to make
money and sell things and promote links
is really important for creators in the
modern Creator economy so many creators
are making their living based off of
affiliate promotions and brand
Partnerships and linking to their Amazon
stores and things like that and Lemony
seems to know this because they've
already integrated a lot of features
that it took Instagram 10 years to add
and so while of course I don't have any
data yet about how much lemonade users
are making or how people are able to
charge for brand Partnerships on
lemonade I don't even know if that's
going on yet but what I can tell you is
just the fact that these features exist
is promising it means that creators are
going to be able to make money directly
on Lemay or they're at least going to be
able to promote their links and their
courses and their products and the
things that they are selling on lemonade
which is great news for creators and the
seventh reason why I think that lemonade
could be a major social media platform
is of course that it is owned by tiktok
and like I said earlier in the last 10
to 15 years there hasn't been one social
media app to grow and establish itself
like Tick Tock apps I mean Tick Tock has
become such a big deal here in the
United States there are Congressional
hearings about possibly Banning the app
there's no other social media app
besides like meta and facebook slash
Instagram that are on that level and
Tick Tock blew up to this stage in less
than three years so if there's anyone
who I would put my trust in to build a
major social media app one that has
viral success with great algorithms and
great incentives for creators it would
be the owners of tick tock and since
Tick Tock owns lemonade I would bet that
they know how to grow lemonade in a
similar way that they grew Tick-Tock and
one of the things that really sets Tick
Tock apart that I think allowed it to
grow so quickly over the last few years
is its algorithm it is just so addicting
and I see that recognizing the good side
and the bad side of its addictiveness
but the tick tock algorithm is great I
would argue that The Tick Tock algorithm
is better than any algorithm on any
other social media platform it's
constantly serving you with new content
from people you never followed never
seen their posts before that's highly
engaging the content that you feel like
you want to see the more time time you
spend on Tick Tock the better the
algorithm gets and Tick Tock has spent
millions and millions of dollars it's
actually rumored that they've spent over
a billion dollars just on refining the
for you page algorithm and what that
tells me is that Tick Tock knows how to
find and show us engaging content Tick
Tock has spent precious time and
resources on building their algorithm on
Tick Tock so I think one of two if not
both things are going to happen the
first being that Tick Tock is going to
use what it's learned from its for you
page algorithm and apply that to the
lemonade algorithm or they might even
directly take the algorithm from The
Tick Tock for you page and apply it to
laminate of course some things would
have to be changed because the content
is slightly different the way people
interact is slightly changed there is a
lot more photos on lemonade than on Tick
Tock I understand all those things but
all of that to just say tick tock knows
algorithms they know how to make great
algorithms and I wouldn't be surprised
if the lemonade algorithm which
admittedly right now isn't great can
continues to improve and improve and
improve until it's at The Addictive
levels that Tick Tock is all right now
that we've covered all of that let's
talk about my tips for growing on
lemonade I have six tips for you and
before we even get into them let me just
say I'm not a lemonade expert and I
don't think really anyone is qualified
to call themselves a lemonade expert I
am a social media expert and I do study
the algorithms I do study Tick Tock and
Instagram on a daily basis and so I do
have a fair amount of knowledge coming
into this but lemonade is a totally new
animal I'm not claiming that any of
these tips are going to make you wildly
successful overnight these are things
that have worked for me so far and I now
have numerous posts that have gone vfm
or viral for me on lemonade multiple
posts with over 30 000 views and one
post with over 100
000 views the first tip that I would
give you is the same tip that I would
give you no matter what social media app
you're on and that's that you need to
get one Crystal Clear Niche and stick to
it right now on lemonade it's all about
topics they have a set number of
categories that you can be shown on your
for are you paid and those things are
likely to expand and change over time
but that tells us that lemonade is all
about these categories and topics and
eliminates algorithm which is still in
its infancy has to determine it has to
do its best artificial intelligence job
to figure out what topic you fit into
and what category it should put you in
what box it should put you in
essentially and so the more you bounce
around and post about a wide variety of
different topics all your different
interests and passions it's really hard
for the lemonade algorithm to figure out
whom to show your post to if you are
however only posting by one subject and
of course lemonade can show you to
people who are interested in that
subject it's so much easier for the
algorithm to learn what that subject is
and then recommend your content to
people who are looking for posts about
that subject similarly if someone
follows you and you're posting about a
wide variety of things they're likely
not going to engage with all of those
things or be interested in all of those
things unless they're super interested
in you that's one thing that I want to
make sure we under understand and that
is clear when we're talking about Niche
is that you can be your own Niche think
about Mega celebrities like Emma
Chamberlain or Kim Kardashian or any of
these people who have blown up on social
media or just you know or even celebrity
status now those people have permission
to talk about whatever they want because
for whatever reason we find them so
interesting we're so engaged with their
lives that any side passion project that
they go down any rabbit hole that they
go down we will follow them because
we're that invested in that engaged with
them and their content so it's easiest
to grow if you stick to one topic and
you're talking about just that one topic
for one single group of people and it's
clearly defined because then that group
of people knows where you're going to
talk about they know they have a
community on your page and they know why
they should follow you if you're posting
about a wide variety of things and you
haven't established yourself as one of
these major Charlie demilio level
influencers then people might be more
reluctant to follow you at the end of
the day we are all so stringent with who
we follow we're all so selective and
choosy with who we follow if we click on
your page because we were interested in
one of your videos about space and we
see that there's a bunch of other videos
about random topics that have nothing to
do with outer space well then we're
probably not going to follow you unless
you're just that great of a content
creator or you're that engaging or your
life is that interesting so tip number
one is stick to one Niche tip number two
is to use hashtags now it's been hard to
figure out an exact best practice here
but I think I've kind of found a sweet
spot with around 50 000 to 150 000 uses
of that hashtag I will say that When
selecting hashtags on lemonade make sure
that they are super specific to the post
and you may be surprised some of the
hashtags that you're going to use that
are specific to your post and maybe on
Instagram have a couple million uses
don't have any uses on lemonade yet I
would still recommend using those even
though they're lower than your
recommended a minute ago and that's
because you can be one of the first
there you can be one of the first to
strike it rich or to find gold because
you're using hashtags that are popular
on Instagram or other platforms which
means that they're likely going to be
searched for on lemonade but just no one
in your Niche showing in your category
no one using those hashtags is on
lemonade yet so you can really establish
yourself and get out ahead of the market
by having a lot of posts on that hashtag
before anyone else has ever used it my
third tip is to Hype up your lemonade on
tick tock on Instagram on Snapchat on
Twitter on Facebook on YouTube on
whatever other social media apps you
have on your podcast whatever handout
Flyers with your lemonade username on it
this is one of the best ways to grow on
any social media platform is to use your
existing audience or your existing
platform on other apps and direct those
people to follow you on lemonade of
course it will always be a very small
percentage of people but just the fact
that some of your followers on other
platforms can be like hey she's on
lemonade too I'm gonna go follow her
over there I don't know anyone yet oh
hey I love this guy's content on YouTube
I'm gonna go follow him on lemonade
promoting your lemonade username and
giving the link or the QR code to follow
you on lemonade on other platforms is
always going to be a great way to grow
my fifth tip for growing on lemonade is
to be social now this is one of my
points of contention where I don't love
lemonade it doesn't feel super social
yet the direct message feature I think
there is one it's very hardly used I
haven't used it at all myself the
comments section is fine but a lot of
people are hesitant to comment and it
seems like the social component just
isn't there that's one of the things
that made Instagram strongest and
allowed Instagram to grow so quickly is
that it felt very social similarly
Facebook pages still remain as one of
the most engaged pieces of all social
media even on a platform that a lot of
people no longer like that much which is
Facebook because of community when
people feel like they have a place when
they feel like they have Community when
they feel like they have a Social Circle
they're more likely to stay engaged and
I feel like that's one of the pieces
that's missing from lemonade and the the
responsibility to build that community
and be social should fall on our
shoulders as the users as the content
creators it is our jobs to Foster those
communities to engage with people to
network to build relationships and build
connections on lemonade so the more
social you can be by responding to
comments commenting on other people's
Pages interacting with other people's
posts the better my fifth tip pertains
to your content on lemonade and
originally I was just taking all of my
best performing videos my best reels and
tick tocks and posting them on lemonade
but they weren't doing great and that's
because lemonade seems to be a primarily
photo based app at least right now but
as it currently stands the content
that's doing the best on lemonade is
very aesthetically pleasing photo based
content with text on top of it so words
on top of photos oftentimes something
that's educational or recommendational
something that's you know here are some
quick tips for traveling to Belize here
are some uh easy meal swap here are some
great dupes of otherwise expensive
clothing I don't know there's there's is
lots of content on lemonade that seems
very educational with a lot of
recommendations or inspiration and it's
oftentimes put on top of some sort of
aesthetically pleasing photo I think
lemonade kind of exists in a space
between the old Instagram that was all
photos and very pretty and aesthetically
pleasing and Pinterest where you're
getting a lot of educational valuable
content it kind of blurs those lines and
I think that's where lemonade is
currently standing with the content
that's working well speaking of content
my sixth tip for you to grow on lemonade
is to take all the content that you've
already posted especially the content
that you posted that's done well on
other apps your best post from Instagram
your best tick tocks your best Tweets
your best Facebook posts Your Best
YouTube videos take that content and
share it on to Lemonade you've already
done the work creating all this content
so you might as well share it on
lemonade as well now I'm not saying it's
necessarily going to perfectly fit on
lemonade I'm not saying it's necessarily
going to go viral or do great on
lemonade but statistically speaking if
it's done well on other platforms it's
likely going to do well lemonade also
and also when you're just getting
started on lemonade you want to make
sure you have content for new followers
to look at if someone clicks on your
page and you've only made one or two
posts they're a lot less likely to
follow you than if they click on your
page and they see dozens of other posts
that are also relating to that same
Niche or topic so take all of your
content from your other platforms it's
done well and share it on lemonade I
would love to hear your thoughts though
what do you think about lemonade do you
think it's here to stay have you joined
the platform will you follow me what are
your thoughts I would love to hear from
you in the comments section below the
YouTube version of this podcast if you
are listening on audio only I would love
to hear your thoughts either via direct
message on something like Instagram or
Tick Tock or maybe even on lemonade or
if you are feeling super awesome and
you're not watching the podcast you're
just listening head over to YouTube
where we do have the video based version
of this podcast and leave a comment
below this video so you can tell me what
your thoughts are about lemonade and
this new social media thank you so much
for listening today and as always have
happy networking
[Music]